### **Control 10: Malware Defences**

Prevent or control the installation, spread, and execution of malicious applications, code, or scripts on enterprise assets.

10.1 Deploy and Maintain Anti-Malware Software
10.2 Configure Automatic Anti-Malware Signature Updates
10.3 Disable Autorun and Autoplay for Removable Media
10.4 Configure Automatic Anti-Malware Scanning of Removable Media
10.5 Enable Anti-Exploitation Features
10.6 Centrally Manage Anti-Malware Software
10.7 Use Behaviour-Based Anti-Malware Software
- rather than signature based, use this.

---

### **Control 11: Data Recovery**

Establish and maintain data recovery practices sufficient to restore in-scope enterprise assets to a pre-incident and trusted state.

**Safeguards**:
11.1 Establish and Maintain a Data Recovery Process
11.2 Perform Automated Backups
11.3 Protect Recovery Data
11.4 Establish and Maintain an Isolated Instance of Recovery Data
11.5 Test Data Recovery
- To ensure backup tape functionality, periodic checks are essential. 
- As tapes can be damaged by magnetic fields, they must be stored in anti-static containers. 
- Proper humidity control is crucial to prevent static buildup.

---

### **Control 12: Network Infrastructure Management**

Establish, implement, and actively manage (track, report, correct) network devices, in order to prevent attackers from exploiting vulnerable network services and access points.

**Safeguards**:
12.1 Ensure Network Infrastructure is Up-to-Date
12.2 Establish and Maintain a Secure Network Architecture
12.3 Securely Manage Network Infrastructure
12.4 Establish and Maintain Architecture Diagram(s)
12.5 Centralise Network Authentication, Authorisation, and Auditing (AAA)
12.6 Use of Secure Network Management and Communication Protocols
12.7 Ensure Remote Devices Utilise a VPN and are Connecting to an Enterprise’s AAA Infrastructure
12.8 Establish and Maintain Dedicated Computing Resources for All Administrative Work

---

### **EXTRA**: 

**What is a logic bomb?**
**Answer:** A logic bomb is a malicious code designed to activate and cause harm under specific conditions, such as a certain date or event.

---