## **HTTP Redirect**

### **Steps to Perform an HTTP Redirect in DVWA**

1. **Set Security Level to Low**
    
    - In DVWA (Damn Vulnerable Web Application), set the security level to **low**.
2. **Navigate to HTTP Redirect Section**
    
    - In DVWA, go to the HTTP Redirect feature.
3. **Manipulate the URL for Redirection**
    
    - Edit the URL and append a query string to redirect to another location.
    - Example:
        
        ```html
        ?redirect=https://www.google.com
        ```
        
    - Replace `https://www.google.com` with any target URL to test the redirection behavior.

---

### **Managing nginx.conf File**

**Locate the php.ini file**

Use the `locate` command to find all the instances of the `php.ini` file:
then make the following changes to make the URL work:
- In every file you find using the locate command, change the `allow_url_include` to `On`
- This will allow you to perform the `http redirection`.


 **Locate the nginx.conf File**

Use the `locate` command to find all instances of the `nginx.conf` file:

```bash
locate nginx.conf
```

#### **Modify the Configuration**

1. **Add Lines for Directory Listing**  
    Inside the `location /{}` block in the `nginx.conf` file, add the following lines:
    
    ```nginx
    autoindex on;
    allow all;
    ```
    
2. **Update Access Permissions**
    
    - Change all instances of `deny all` to `allow all` within the `nginx.conf` files.

---

### **Restart Necessary Services**

After making the changes, restart the following services to apply the configuration:

```bash
sudo service apache2 restart
sudo service php7.x restart  # Replace '7.x' with your PHP version
sudo service nginx restart
sudo service mysql restart   # Or your database service
```

---

### **WebGoat**

WebGoat is an intentionally insecure web application designed for learning and practicing web application security. It provides a hands-on environment to test vulnerabilities like SQL Injection, XSS, and more.

---

### **Backdoor**

A backdoor is a hidden method or vulnerability used by attackers to gain unauthorized access to a system or application. It bypasses normal authentication processes, allowing persistent control over the compromised system.

---