### VI Editor Overview

**VIM** stands for **VI IMproved**, an enhanced version of the **VI** text editor. It's a powerful CLI (Command Line Interface) editor commonly used in Linux systems.

#### 1. Installation Commands:

- **Install VIM using `apt`**:  
    `sudo apt-get install vim`
    
- **Install VIM using `snap`**:  
    `sudo snap install vim`
    
    Both `snap` and `apt` are package managers that install various software packages on your system.
    

---

### 2. VIM Modes

VIM operates in three modes:

1. **Command Mode**:
    - Access by pressing `Esc`.
    - This mode allows you to give commands to save, copy, cut, and perform other actions.
2. **Text Mode / Insert Mode**:
    - Access by pressing `i`.
    - This mode is used to add or insert content into the file.
3. **Visual Mode**:
    - Access by pressing `v`.
    - Used to select text within the editor.

By default, the VI editor opens in **Command Mode**.

---

### 3. Common VIM Commands

#### File Operations:

- `:w`: Save or write to the file.
- `:q`: Quit or exit the VI editor.
- `:wq`: Save and quit the file.

#### Copy (Yank) Commands:

- `:y`: Copy the current line.
- `yy`: Copy the current line.
- `:ny`: Copy the `n`th line.
- `nyy`: Copy the next `n` lines from the current line.
- `m,ny`: Copy lines from line `m` to line `n`.
- `yw`: Copy the next word.
- `y$`: Copy from the cursor position to the end of the line.
- `y^`: Copy from the start of the line to the cursor position.

#### Cut (Delete) Commands:

- `:d`: Cut the current line.
- `dd`: Cut the current line.
- `:nd`: Cut the `n`th line.
- `ndd`: Cut the next `n` lines from the current line.
- `m,nd`: Cut lines from line `m` to line `n`.

#### Delete Commands (without pasting):

- `:d`: Delete the current line.
- `dd`: Delete the current line.
- `:nd`: Delete the `n`th line.
- `ndd`: Delete the next `n` lines from the current line.
- `m,nd`: Delete lines from line `m` to line `n`.

#### Paste and Undo:

- `p`: Paste the copied line.
- `u`: Undo the last action.